He said, yes. He said, you know, my daddy brought
them in here, and he was afraid that this was too
severe a weather that they wouldn't be able to live
in this country in the wintertime, that it would be
too cold. And he said, you know, we had the shed. I
said, yes, I remember that very well. And I said,
you remember that we hitched them to the wagon, a
little old cart that your daddy had made for us and
he told us whatever we did not to run down that hill
not to go down that hill because they wouldn't be
able to hold it back he didn't have any harness that
would hold a wagon back but you know we got in it and
rode in this wagon down the hill and we turned over
at the bottom you remember that he said yes and i
said you remember i was skinned up And I didn't have
a bit of hide left on my nose. He said, yes, I
remember that. And I know that what happened to me,
I got a spanking. And I said, well, I didn't get a
spanking, but I never will forget Grandma Chapman
putting camphor on it. And he just set me afire, and
I screamed bloody murder. And she was trying to get
the Dobie Grint out of, it just grazed my nose. It
had Dobie Grint all in it. She's trying to get that
out and clean me up, and I just thought I was ruined.
And he said, that's so right. I said, do
you have a picture of those goats? And he said, yes,
I do. I said, I'd be happy if you'd send a picture of
that to me. And there it is right up there. That's
great. First Angora goats, registered Angora
goats, has ever brought in to Blanco County.
That's grand. Right there. And then, by the same
token, he said, well, he said, you know how we used
to sweat those pecans out? I said, yes, but you tell
people today that you sweat pecans, and they just
don't know what you're talking about. But what...
they did they would thrash the pecans even though
the hulls on them were still green and not yet dry
enough to peel off and they would put them in a big
box and let them go through a sweat and then they
would turn dark and you could peel them that's
right and old timers did that and he was asking me
and I said yeah but now then they let them go and he
said Well, you know, the squirrels got so many of
them. I said, yes, the squirrels and the crows and
the coons all ate on them until then. And that's the
reason that old timers took them out early and took
them off and let them go through a sweat and they put
them in these boxes. And he said, well, another
thing that has puzzled me, and I know that it
happened, but I'm not able to put it all together. I
said, well, what was that, Lou? And he said, what
about the peach
kernels that we, or peach seeds and the plum seeds
we had? I said, well, we put them out and we washed
them off and got all of the hide and everything, all
the meat off of them and dried them and took them to
town. and sold them. And we sold peach seeds. He
said, do you know for what they were used for? I
said, well, some were used for when they planted to
re-bud and to re-graft, and some were used in
medicines, and some were used in face cosmetics,
and I said there were different uses of the peach
kernel and the plum kernel. I really don't really
remember, but I know that that we would always sell
our peach seed. And he said, yeah, that wasn't the
only thing we sold either, was it? And I said, to
make money. I said, no, it sure wasn't. I said, we'd
pick up every medicine bottle it was and wash it and
sold medicine bottles to the drugstore for extra
cash money. And pick up a beer bottle and sell you
two. Now that's how we made our extra spending
money. Selling bottles, peach seeds. Of course we
sold our pecans.
And every Saturday we'd take our butter, eggs,
cream to town. That was extreme. Who would you sell
it? Fredericksburg or Johnson City? Right here.
In Johnson City. Right here in this little town.
They'd take it off. The stores would buy it? The
stores would buy it. And I don't know how in the
world we didn't have any ice. How did they keep that
cream? Now you tell me. I don't know. We didn't have
any ice here. We brought our ice in here. by
truckloads and big blocks of ice. But I don't
remember those stores having ice to put on cream.
But I'm sure they did because they couldn't keep it
otherwise. Did they bring it up from Austin? Yeah,
they brought it up from Austin on flatbed trucks.
I'm sure, yeah. I know they did. Yeah, that they
must have had. But that was in later years. But when
we first started out, I know grandmother brought
hers in buckets. Where'd you store eggs? Besides
the cool houses. Well houses. Well houses. You had
well houses to keep that. And I know, you know where
the beauty shop is today? Yeah, right. There's a
well behind there. Yeah. And there used to be a
little house back of that that they kept all their
eggs in. Mm-hmm. and all of the products back there
in this little... That was the Witherson Spalding
store. And it's right where the National Park
Library is today. That was the Witherson Spalding
store. And they, on the east side, on the west side
rather, they had hitching posts where they were
all lined up there and they would tie their their
horses and their things there and that little
alley between and it's still there today between
Withers and Spalding store and the bank well they
would have part of that cut off and that was all
cemented and had that rock wall against it and they
would put their put extra eggs out there and extra
poultry and things in that little alley To keep it
cool. Keep it cool. Sure. Well, let me ask you
another question. I know I've talked to you about
the, what about the, you know, we were talking
about the peddlers. They used to come up here?
Yeah. That's sort of trading. What? Tell us some
more about that, because recently we met somebody
whose great-grand, great-uncle was a peddler out
of San Antonio. Well, they came, they used to come
up this way. Yeah, they would always come through
here, and they had certain, certain of time to come
maybe it would be on mondays or and fridays and they
would come through here but they didn't come every
week it'd probably be every two weeks they would
come and they would take anything that you had to
sell it would be butter eggs chickens turkeys uh
anything, vegetables, marketing goods,
anything you had to sell, and they would trade it to
you. Well, we had no place to buy shoes. We had no
place to buy little dresses for children or little
coats. And I'll never forget the first pair of
little shoes that I can remember that I cherished
with all my heart was a little pair of, patent
leather shoes with red tops. And they were laced
up. And Margaret got a pair. I got a pair of black
ones with red tops. And Margaret got a pair of black
ones with white tops. And we thought they were the
cutest things that ever was. And they were. And my
mother traded them some chickens and some butter
and some eggs. to buy these shoes and what we called
a bear skin coat and it was imitation fur mine was a
red and Margaret's was a brown and they were really
pretty little coats and they had a little head
thing that we called well it was a it had a
pom-pom on the top of it and it came up to a point in
the top and it was really a pretty cute outfit and
the collar buttoned up close around the neck where
you didn't have any cold air to get through and the
head had a little cord that you pull down here that
fit tight around your neck and you pull it around
your head and put it down and you look like just like
a little Pekingese
thing with that pointed tail up and the pom-pom on
the top of it. But it was real cute. And it just
matched my shoes and my little cap and thing. And I
well remember her paying for it with chickens and
butter and eggs. And then another thing that I
remember quite so well, they brought a little
stove by and they sold also stoles for the farm
people to buy and it was the cutest thing that ever
was and he'd show how the how you could push the the
how compact it was that the smoke would go up this
way and out the out the regular uh stove pipe rather
than coming out all around the sides how well it was
put together and it was called Home Comfort Stove.
And they sold between four and five hundred
dollars. Now that was many, many moons ago. That
was when I was just a little girl. About how old?
Well, let me see. We moved down here in 12. And I
would have been, that was when I was about six years
old. And they sold at that price then, and you said,
well, you were so young, how do you remember that?
Well, I was taught from the word gold, the value of a
dollar by my mother, and how much it meant, and how
many it took to do this, and how many. I knew. And
when he said it would cost that much, I knew that we
that that was impossible for us to buy. And I never
will forget telling the man, I said, well, we don't
have that kind of money. And he said, he looked at me
and he said, well, how do you know? And I looked up at
my mother and I said, mother, do we have that? She
said, no, darling, we sure don't. And he couldn't
understand why I would know that we didn't have
that kind of money. Well, my mother taught me from
the time I was old enough to talk that we didn't have
too much. And we didn't buy anything with what we
could pay for. He was a person that wanted to be
loved more than anything in this world. In
history. He comes off very much, in the Miller
book, he comes off as somebody who comes off as very
compassionate in a way oh yes when he was teaching
in katula oh he was and he up until his dying day he
was a very compassionate person but he also he also
comes across as somebody who will manipulate and
step on toes and knock in other words i was what was i
saying to you the other night in other words
they're He'll just knock over anybody he can to get
the point that he wants to make and do it. He's
always done it. He comes off as one of the most, and
this isn't my opinion, but this is just an
impression I've gotten from the Miller book. He
comes off as one of the most
politically manipulative people in the century.
They can say whatever they want to, but he could
manipulate, he could manipulate persuasively.
You could probably talk somebody into jumping off
a bridge without a life raft. Absolutely. He could
do it. And he did do it. Yeah. And he comes off as very
politically astute, almost, some people might
say unethical, where he would not vote a certain
way until he felt it would be politically
advantageous for him to vote a certain way. Sure.
That's what the Miller book really makes a strong
point. And that's exactly right. Johnson, he,
what did he do? Oh yeah, with the McCarthy
hearings, the army McCarthy hearings, the way
Lyndon would not, he just kept his mouth shut,
didn't say what he felt until he felt the country
was ready to start censuring McCarthy. And then
all of a sudden he came out and, you know, censured
McCarthy. But until that, even though according
to the people quoted in the book, he disagreed very
much with what McCarthy was doing, he kept quiet
because he figured the people of Texas You know,
we're not ready for that. Manipulator. Well, if
the book succeeds in that, though, that's one
thing I'll say. Again, I'm coming from ignorance,
based on what I knew, reading newspapers about him
as president and so forth. But if one of Miller's
purposes was to picture him as a Mr. Politician,
and I'll step on anybody to get my point across and
to can persuade anybody then it does the job
because again I don't know what was accurate or
inaccurate about his childhood because that's
well anyway I tell you that was the main thing and uh
we were poor there was no question about it but of
course his sister says we were not that we had as
much as anybody we may have had as much but by golly
is that a blessing or not I was old enough to know.
And let me tell you, when you get up in the morning
and you don't have anything to eat but cornbread
and cream gravy, you know the times are hard. And we
lived on the ranch. And it was hard times. Our
cattle were not fat enough to be slaughtered. The
deer were not fat enough to eat. back in the 20s back
in the 80s 30s listen it was rough going and we'd
kill cottontail rabbits and that would be our meat
every once in a while we'd find a fat coon and he
never forgot that no and let me tell you They can say
what they want to. But that was the thing that stuck
in Lyndon Johnson's craw was the hardships that we
went through as children and for eating and for
cooking. Listen, we had to pay for our education.
We had to buy our own books. We didn't have free
books when we went to school. We bought our books.
And they were not the books that were the latest off
of the press, they were the ones that you could get
the most of for that particular class. And they may
have been back in 1895. I've got a scholar that was
1895 that I had in the fifth grade. I've got
arithmetic that was put out with Sutton and Bruce
that I loaned to the library. That was copyrighted
in 1890. And those are the books that you grew up
using? That was the books that I grew up using. The
Blueback Scholar and Sutton Bruce's Arithmetic.
And I went to school to a Mrs. Bruce that was a sister
to the man that was author of this Arithmetic in
Southwest Norman.
That's how old she was. Ms. Bruce. How about that?
So your education was what they could pull
together. And so Melissa was his. And we paid for
our education. We only had a seven-month school
year. And two months of it was paid tuition. I can
only remember one time going to school with paid
tuition. My mother was a teacher and my daddy was a
teacher. And I stayed at home those two months and
studied. And then when preschool opened for five
months, I went to school for five months and made a
grade in five months.
The thing is, we've sort of systemized everything
that we lose touch with the fact that people in the
community life still take one career and stick
with it for the rest of their lives. You don't have
to be a jack-of-all-trades in your education.
Again, who's teaching and who's not this year,
right? I look back Of course, I know that Kitty Pie
and I were talking the other night. See, I'm four
years older than she is. And she said, you know,
when I think about it, we have been a wonderful
family. I said, we sure have. And we have seen the
change. and the times that have gone and come. And I
said, no other generation has had as many changes
as you and I have seen. I said, how many times have we
ridden on a freight wagon from here to Austin,
pulling bales of cotton to the market to be shipped
to Galveston? That's where our market was,
Galveston. You
heard that old saying, sleep in the wagon yard? We
slept in the wagon yard. Leonard East Wagon Yard,
down the old first street.
Golly. Here, I've met every astronaut that has
ever been up. Right here at this little town.
From the man on the moon to the wagon train to
Austin.
Maybe you change. Well, you know, the people who
have come out of your generation, Ava, and people
who have come up in mine since World War II, I mean,
we don't know. I mean, I'm lucky. My family was your
generation. Yeah. And since I was an
afterthought, an accident down the line, so I see a
bridge with your generation. The majority of
people that are my age are not. No. Then they're
children are not. No. Yeah. And it's quite a loss of
that identity that America changed right here in
your generation. Harvey was telling me, he says,
mother, he said, I want to tell you something.
Well, I told you about riding a racehorse. for Roy
Stubbs. And he took this horse and sold it for $500
for a polo pony. He said, I was in San Antonio a
couple weeks ago to see the doctor and he said,
Mother, I want to take you out and show you Roy
Stubbs' polo patch that he still has, still
operating. He's 90. 92 years old. Still operating
it in San Antonio. And he said, I said, well, don't.
I said, that is okay. And so Roy told Corky about me
riding his horse and me getting sent to Smith, old
Atlanta. And that Atlanta polo team was number one
in Texas. And here I am, a country girl, standing on
the sideline watching the races. And Roy Stubbs
walks up to my daddy and says, I don't have a rider
for my horse and I need one. He said, I've got a rider
for you right here. My daddy said that. And he said,
who? He said, Little Ava. And I stand there looking
over the fence at these horses getting old. I just
heard him say Little Ava, and I turned around. And
he said, go get your boots on. I said, but I'm free.
My boots is in the wagon, not with a hat. And I went
and got my boots. And he said, do you have any spurs?
I said, no, I didn't bring any spurs. Roy said, I got
a pair. Well, you know what pole spurs are. They
just have a knob on them. They don't have any gears.
Just a knob. And I said, has this horse ever been
ridden with pole spurs? Roy said, no. I said, well,
she may throw a nuclear over that fence. He said,
oh, no, I don't think so. I said, well, we better try
before I get out there on that track. You know, with
the poles first. And so we turned around two or
three times, and Karen and I did it with the poles
first. And she just put a figure eight in that tail
and just whirled it. And I knew if I didn't turn many
times, she'd throw me the tail over the fence. I
knew that, you know, when I'd see that tail with me.
Roy, I got on, and I rode her out. And just about the
time I got better than a little halfway, I heard my
daddy holler out, put the bug to her sister. And I
knew what that meant. It meant to whip her up. And
old Roy said, give her the reins, give her the
reins. Well, I knew if I gave her the reins and then
hit her, that I'd never stop when I got to the end. I
didn't think I would, that we'd just keep going.
But I did just what they told me, because they
seemed to be knowing. Well, we didn't stop at the
gate. We just hurtled that gate just as pretty as it
pleased and just kept circling.
But I grabbed the reins, I'll guarantee you. But we
didn't even stop at the skater. I'll never forget
that. But to think the polo pins are still
operating the same thing. And it always still
takes horses down it. That's something else. For
life, for you. I think that's the whole thing. It's
the idea that It was a time that it all happened, and
you were just a part of the community. That's all it
means.
And you lived and let live. You helped your
neighbor. Well, what did I get out of riding like a
drunk Indian? I got nothing out of it. That's a good
story. Well, what did that mean to him? Nothing. It
was just, you know, he needed a rider. And I got
nothing out of it, and you were helping out
somebody. That's all it is in the end.
Just like it was burying people across the river.
Why they wouldn't dare let a girl do that today?
They'd be afraid she'd fall off and drown. Don't
you think of yourself, that's one thing I think you
know my feelings. They've done an excellent
exhibit about women in Texas. I think we've talked
about it before. There are women who've made their
way into the cultural limelight of Texas. And
beneath them are the women who have sort of held the
state together. The state tradition. And the
state tradition. And that tradition has not been
one of the aristocracy. No, it has not been. It has
been one of hardship, one of sacrifice. And
experiences that I think only are conditional to
the clients. That's right. Because there was no
freely-mailing. I mean, some of the things that is
being a rancher's wife is being a rancher. I mean,
that's right. They are a farmer's wife. You're a
farmer. You have a dual identity there that is
not... stereotypical to the female role that
we're, I think, giving all the credit to these
women here in Texas. That's something that I can't
understand today. They feel like that a woman that
does these things today is really
not in the cultural up and up. She's believing in
herself. My land, I can remember when I'd sit on an
old disc plow driving four mules all day long and
plowing in the field. I didn't think there was
anything wrong in it. I was helping my daddy make a
living. I'd get on a cultivator. I could set a
cultivator. They don't know what setting a
cultivator is today. You have to set those those
little plows to where they just go exactly by that,
by the stalk of cotton or this corn. And you have a
notch that you put that mold in, and you regulate
it. And you get out there, and you see just how close
you want to throw that dirt, and just how far. And
that's what you call . You talk about that today to a
person, What are the numbers of women in
agriculture in A&M? I wonder what they are. And the
women, their mothers, who were
agriculturalists. I'm having to learn again. I
just don't understand. And when I went to A&M, I
went down there one summer. And I took tanning and
curing meat. And let's see, home canning,
carrying meat, and marketing. Yeah. No sense
pertaining to culture? Absolutely nothing.
That's where I lived and what I did. Right, it was a
necessity for me to know this. It was a necessity.
And it was short course. And you know, if a woman
went down there in the 30s and 40s to take that, that
burn, they were just almost ostracized. Now, I'm
not kidding you one. That's right. And they looked
at you. But these were special courses that I even
offered for extension services. For extension
services, and I went
and took them. I think one of them cost me $90. I know
it wasn't an awful expensive thing because we
didn't have it. But what I did, I paid for it. In a
summer's time, the old food jar company hired me to
put on demonstrations to use their jars to canvass
and I paid for it. Where did you do these
demonstrations? Right down here at the hardware
store. And at the different club meetings
throughout the county. Sort of like the
Tupperware lady. You just go from community to
community and you go to someone's house and you put
on these demonstrations, sell the jars. Oh,
honey, I've done everything from Cape Cod to
Hickory Den that was honest and honest to make a
living, to get by. Milk cows, milk 24-headed cows
day and morning and night. We sell milk in this
town. She didn't have any. But as I say, you're not
alone. There are other people here, like
yourself, who have to do the same thing. And again,
this is the environment that, you know, they miss,
that they look at, or they don't see. And you pick
yourself up with the bootstraps and say, it's a
better way. I can do that. But you didn't decide to
teach until late in life, really. No, I didn't.
Now, how long until you decided to go back to
college? Well... I'll tell you, I went back in 48,
in the summer of 48, and took my first 12 hours of
school. And I stood that summer for an emergency
certificate. And I got it for six years. If you made
an average of 85, you could get it for six years. So I
had 18 subjects that I took. And I got it for six
years. I came back up here and I started teaching. I
taught in the fall of 48. And in 50,
I walked down the aisle. With my diploma from
Trinity University, my BS degree. You have to go on
school nights, right? And going every night,
teaching all day and going every night to school.
Then, and that was in 50. Then I said, well, I'm
through. And my husband said, oh, no, you're not. I
said, the heck, I'm not. I'm tired and I'm going to
quit. He said, no, you're not. You're going after
that master's. I said, oh, well, I don't care
whether I ever get a master's. No, you're going
to. So in 1951,
I started after my master's degree in January. In
1952, I had my master's degree. Taught school
every day. Never attended a... I attended summer,
one summer, in college. And you went back to
Southwest Texas for that? Mm-hmm. But you always
made contributions to make to Southwest Texas.
Huh? You made contributions as a student. Oh,
yeah. I know. You brought as much into your work
as... You got out of it. I guess I did. I've heard. I
know when I was working on my master's that I was
elected
assistant professor to Ms. Theria, head of the
geography department.
I enjoyed that. I enjoyed it a lot.
When did you hold office, maybe, here as
superintendent of the school? Uh-huh. Where were
you superintendent of the school? Let's see, in
1935, 1936. This is before you finished your
education. Well, shoot, I just had, when I didn't,
I was out of a step that I just go down and take the
examination and start all over. Never go to
school. Mm-hmm.
That's critical, but that's the way it happened.
That's the way it was done. Yeah, that's the way it
was done. Education in rural Texas is something
else, something else. It was a makeshift faculty.
It sure was.
What about our first school here in 1923?
What do you think about that? Well, I had 20, 27 in my
room. I had 6 and 7, 3. 6 and 7. And those two vases
right up there, those green ones on that top shelf,
was given to me by the two groups. They're frosted
glass and they would be real expensive.
Was Johnson City bigger than it is now? I mean, the
community? Well, yes. Yes, it had more people
here. In 1890, there was more people in the county
than there are today. What is the county
population today? Well, I'll imagine if. Where
did you get that? She probably had it hidden for a
week under the bed. But what a presentation.
Why
not? Trouble? You want to get this bone and get back
in your room?
Yes, I'm ashamed of you. I'm really ashamed of you.
Mommy didn't know you was that kind of a baby. No,
she didn't. She knew you was a little dog with a
little bone, but she didn't think you'd go back in
the house. Well, in 19...
20 and 18 and 90 we had over 5,000
in the county and I think today counting the old
that's those who are not to pay poll tax you know the
overs and the unders I think we might have 4,000
As you said, my observation, because of the war
between Blanco and Johnson, particularly over
the courthouse, I've noticed that the only
courthouse in Texas that doesn't have benches out
front and people sitting around it. So we're aware
of that. Have you ever thought about that? There
are no benches, and I was going to ask you, how has
that placed out through history? When did it
change, or... Well, that's quite a few, between
Johnson, Simpson, and Planko. That is. But they
decided in 19
and 13 that there would be no snuff-dipping,
chewing, and What not do I have? A courthouse
spitman, which is characteristic around other
Texas courthouses. Oh, so 1913, more or less. They
started to up-build this town in 1915, and they
were getting ready to vote the liquor out. Oh, they
were. Oh, yes, they were back and doing all that,
you know, building up to it. Of course, they didn't
do that until 1970, but they were building up to it,
you know, working on it and getting it. And the
movement, church movement, was very strong. And
everything was...
What was the strongest church in this community at
that time? Well, I guess the Christian church. Was
it? By far the strongest. And then by 19 and 22...
The Methodist Church. Yeah. And then by 19,
well, the Baptist Church just really has hung on,
just barely hanging. Mm-hmm. But in the last,
well, in the last four years, it's picked up, and
they do have a nice congregation now. Mm-hmm. But
they were not starting to start with the Christian
and the Methodist. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. We had a
church, what do you call it, Pentecostal church or
Apostolic or whatever you want to call it. We've
had one of those ever since 1915. There are a few,
but always had one.
We just had the first Catholic church built in here
in 1940. A question, what about, these are just
things I keep wanting to ask you, what about
segregation in the community? We have not. You
just don't even hear it ever mentioned. Okay. but
there were not some big black community here no
there's not any there aren't any black there's no
black neighborhood there's no members around
here this is a totally black absolutely county or
no no no after the civil war and this is something
else blanco county is the only county in the south
that followed through exactly as the rules asked
that every uh male and female, 21 years of age,
given a plow, Georgia stock plow, a mule, and 20
acres of land. They did that, and they put them over
in the county, in the south end of the county. They
bought the land, and these Negroes would have to
preempted that land before it was given to them.
And then after they had lived on it a number of years
after, they could have it as theirs. But no white
person could ever buy a foot of that land. So long as
any of its lenient descendants lived, it was
theirs. And it is still there. It is still there.
And they can't get a clear title to anything that
they've got over there. Now, we've had a couple
come in here from the north and bought up some land,
but they don't have a title to it. No way can they get
a title
to it. And these neighbors kept the names. of their
masters that mourned them. Now we've got a bunch of
Johnson neighbors over there. We've got a bunch of
Crownover neighbors, and Calfin neighbors from
their masters. And we have Easter Crownover going
on Easter morning, and her name's Easter
Crownover. And, you know, just They have a Spanish
population here, but that's most of the people who
come in, wouldn't you say? They came here, well,
most of the Mexicans that are here came here with
ranchers. You're right. It started out in this
country. Yeah, there's some old Spanish families
around here. Yeah, old, old Spanish families.
They came with the Spanish farmhand. Yes, they
did. They worked, yeah. Now, the Riberas over at
Round Mountain is one of them. And that woman,
Cookie. Yeah, I know her. Berna. Berna. Is another
one. Her parents came here. And I called her, and
I'm like, yeah. I thought I remember teaching her.
That is. Well, yeah, it is. You'll come back up here
and say, my Lord, wonderful. How many more? But you
know, I... It makes me feel good, even though they
may not have done the best to base you there. But
just to say, well, yeah, that's normal. Just like
old Charlie. I used to have to bust him just as
regular as the week went by. He never went a week
without a spanking. I don't guess I ever did. I know
you, but I just didn't place you. I didn't think
anybody would forget me. And when he remembered,
he remembered. Yeah, he remembered. And just like
this, I had him on the fourth grade.
He just carried a lot of esteem. Didn't they? Well,
old teachers never die, honey. They just lose
their class. Or they just grade away.
But there's lots of consolation in being a
teacher. If you enjoy teaching, and I did. I
enjoyed my school. I loved my kids. They were
honest, but I loved them. And I remember. I
remember the good things. I remember the bad
things. But most of all, the kind things. I really
did.
But that I've had a hard, hard life. A hard life. But
I've had a rich life. A lot richer than my son or my
grandchildren or whatever I am. I agree. Just a lot
richer. I agree. And you know why? And I why? I've
seen on health and life through death. I know.
And... What do you think gave you your incentive to
just really up and be so different? Well, I saw my
mother just have to slave like a man. And I made up my
mind that life had to have more than anything.
She'd put a pear burner on her back and burn the pear
all day long to keep them from starting to die. come
home, cook, and get us off to school of a morning. We
have to get up at 5 o'clock and leave the house by 6 in
order to get up here to school. Ride 5 miles,
horseback, and open 7 gates. And you just don't do
that in 30 minutes time. And that was meant to pack
your lunch and see that you had an overcoat or
raincoat or you had your slicker or you had your
chaps to go over or whatnot to keep the cold off. She
had a hard life. She was an intelligent, smart
woman. She was wise beyond her years. She was just
I look back and wish to goodness that I had half the
brain matter she has. And I just made up my mind that
there's bound to be a better way.
And I started out washing dishes. in a boarding
house after school. Two days, one evening. From
that, I did that for a year. The next year, I worked
in a grocery store.
That's 12 years old. A clerk in a grocery store.
After school, and on Saturday.